ME High and Low populations are being treated together do decide best datasources.

This map includes population locations, all the datasources listed for both temperature and salinity, and an USGS station I found nearby (temp only). All locations are labelled and population lat and long are marked as "P" to make it easier to find their location relative to the datasources locations.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/embed?mid=1OiSklGJLcWVodJQ1RF-YQ6gr1y6NxpIh" width="640" height="480"></iframe>


# Datasets listed in the EasternOysterSeascape sheet and pinned in the map above, and notes to help decide how to compare sources:

# ME_DR_HI_High_W - Temperature

**Primary**

Jose Antonio Hog Island Buoy (Temp_Sal_Hog_Island_Sheepscot_Lewis_ME.xlsx)
* Erin's notes: Temperature in celsius. Data readings once per month Jan.- Nov. 1990-2016. 
* Thais's notes: Temperature in celsius. 1990-2016. This file has data for 3 locations: Hog Island, Sheepscot and Lewis. **Monthly readings and readings for several months are missing for most years; HogIsland does have 3 whole years (st 1 2002 and 2004, st 2 2004)**. This is the best datasouce location-wise because Hog Island is very close to the population location. Sheepscot is close enough that it could be ok for temperature, but not as good as HogIsland, and no whole years. Lewis is far away, towards the ocean and no whole years. *I'm not using Sheepscot or Lewis for temperature*.


Damian Brady Darling Marine Center (LOBO_Data_Mook_SeaFarm_UDRE.xlsx)
* Erin's notes: LOBO data has both temperature and salinity from Upper Damariscotta from April-Nov for 2015-2019.
* Thais's notes: Temperature in celsius. Data frequencies and ranges for each year are: hourly, Sept-Nov 2015; hourly, Apr-Nov 2016; hourly, Jun-Nov 2017; hourly Apr-Nov 2018; no data for 2019. this looks like a good datasource location-wise, but all years are missing several months, mostly cold months. **Might need to be compared to Hog Island data to capture colder months.**

UpperDamariscotta_Temp_Sal_Chla 2015-2019.txt
* Erin's notes: Sensor 066 ( UpperDamariscotta_Temp_Sal_Chla 2015-2019.txt)has salinity and temp data 2015 -2019 in May-Nov. Also, hints that this file is the same as the Mook_SeaFarm_UDRE file.
* Thais's notes: this file has the same data as the Mook_SeaFarm_UDRE file **plus 2019 data: hourly, Jul-Nov 2019**. The file has also been cleaned out of other data (turbidity, nutrients, etc) so it is like a summary file. The lat/long for this location is the exact same as the Mook_SeaFarm_UDRE location. **I will use this to compare to Hog Island instead of Mook SeaFarm because it contains additional (2019) data.**

**Other**

Bar Harbour Bouy
* Erin's notes: Temp given in celsius. Hourly readings Jan-Dec. 2007-2019. The OysterSeascape data spreadsheet has the lat/long and is plotted on the map above. 
* Thais's notes: I think this is a high resolution dataset but it is too far away from the population, so *I'm not using it*.

Upper Damariscotta LOBO (data_dock.csv) 
* Erin's notes: no notes.
* Thais's notes: Temperature in celsius. Data frequencies and ranges for each year are: daily-ish (lots of gaps); Jun-Dec 2004; Jan-Feb 2005; May-Dec 2007; Mar-Dec 2008; Jan-Feb, Sep-Dec 2009; every 3-4days Jan-Dec 2010, 2011, 2012, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019; Jan-Nov (2013, 2014); Jan-Mar 2020. The location is about 5.7 miles (9km) downstream from the population's location. I think this could be a good source, given the data covers the winter months better than Hog Island and Mook SeaFarm. No salinity though. **I will compare this with Hog Island and UpperDamariscotta_temp_sal_2015-19.txt**

LOBO_Data_Mook_SeaFarm_UDRE.xlsx - this file is listed as primary and other, so same notes as above.

UpperDamariscotta_Temp_Sal_Chla 2015-2019.txt - this file is listed as primary and other, so same notes as above.


> Based on these notes: I will compare Hog Island, UpperDamariscotta_temp_sal_2015-19 and dockdata to get temperature data for ME_DR_HI_High_W.

---

# ME_DR_HI_High_W - Salinity

**Primary**

Upper Damariscotta LOBO buoy (LOBO Data_Mook SeaFarm_UDRE.xlsx)
* Erin's notes: LOBO data has both temperature and salinity from Upper Damariscotta from April-Nov for 2015-2019.
* Thais's notes: Salinity in psu. Data frequencies and ranges for each year are: hourly, Sept-Nov 2015; hourly, Apr-Nov 2016; hourly, Jun-Nov 2017; hourly Apr-Nov 2018; no data for 2019. This looks like a good datasource location-wise, but all years are missing several months, mostly cold months. **The location is close to the population's location and salinity does not seem to have a strong seasonal trend at first glance, so this could be a good datasource for this population.**

**Other**

LOBO_Data_Mook SeaFarm_UDRE.xlsx
* Thais's notes: this files is listed as primary and other, see notes above.

UpperDamariscotta_Temp_Sal_Chla 2015-2019.txt
* Erin's notes: UpperDamariscotta_Temp_Sal_Chla 2015-2019.txt has salinity and temp data 2015-2019 in May-Nov.
* Thais's notes: Salinity in PSU. This file has the same data as the Mook_SeaFarm_UDRE file **plus 2019 data: hourly, Jul-Nov 2019**. The file has also been cleaned out of other data (turbidity, nutrients, etc) so it is like a summary file. The lat/long for this location is the exact same as the Mook_SeaFarm_UDRE location. **The location is close to the population's location and has the additional 2019 data, so I will use this instead of the Mook_SeaFarm_UDRE file**


Temp_Sal_Hog_Island_Sheepscot_Lewis_ME.xlsx
* Erin's notes: no notes.
* Thais's notes: Salinity in pct? I'm assuming they meant ppt. 1990-2016. This file has data for 3 locations: Hog Island, Sheepscot and Lewis. **Monthly readings and readings for several months are missing for most years; HogIsland does have 10 whole years (st1 1998, 1999, 2002 and 2004, st2 2002 and 2004, st3 1998, 1999, 2002 and 2004)**. This is the best datasouce location-wise because Hog Island is very close to the population location. Sheepscot is close enough that it could be ok for temperature, but not as good as HogIsland, and 2 whole years (st3 2000 and 2004). Lewis is far away, towards the ocean and no whole years. *I'm not using Lewis for temperature*. **I will compare salinity data from Hog Island and Sheepscot to Upper_Damariscotta_temp_sal_chla_2015-2019 file**.

> Based on these notes: I will compare Hog Island, Sheepscot and UpperDamariscotta_temp_sal_2015-2019 to get salinity data for ME_DR_HI_High_W.
