# 2020-10-16

---

# PopID: NJ_DB_HC_Low_W
---

**COMPARE SOURCES**

Notes on the data sources:

**Primary source:** URI Gomez Chiarra Hope Creek 2012-2015

> Data from each year in separate tabs, I compiled into one tab. Most of the data is in 1/2 hour resolution, with a small window (late May to late June, 2015), every hour.

**Temperature** in C for all years: 2012 June-November; 2013 May-November; 2014 April-December; 2015 May-December. Missing coldest months. 

**Salinity**: 2012 has one column labelled salinity, no units. 2013, 2014, 2015 have two columns, one labelled SpCond (no units) and one labeled Salinity_ppt (calculated from SpCond???).

> For 2013-2015, I calculated salinity from conductivity (assuming units are mS/cm) and temperature. Those calculated salinity values do not match the values in the Salinity_ppt column. The Salinity_ppt column is a factor of ~1.7 of the SpConduc. I don't know if the salinity_ppt values are calculated or measured. Can we ask Erin to ask their source. 

**Secondary source:** 

> There is a secondary data source for temperature listed in EasternOysterSeascapeData but Erin's notes say it's no good, very patchy data and resolution of 1 measurement/monnth. 

**Alternative source (maybe, check with Katie).**

> I found another NOAA station (Ship John Shoal) that might work for this population and has some temp and salinity data. I am comparing this to the primary source to see if we can get a better dataset.

----

Outstanding questions about data for this population:

1) There is no lat and long for the primary datasource, so it is unclear why it was selected as primary (Erin's note: "exact lat and long unknown could check with Marta for speciifc location"). Ask Erin/Dina.

2) The lat and long for the population and for the Alternative Source plotted on the map makes it seem like the alternative data source could be a good one. The alternative source matches the primary source relatively well, but not perfect. I think given the salinity brackets we are using, it should be fine (see below). But why wasn't it used by Erin? Maybe there is a reason that I don't know. Ask Katie.

---


