# 2020-10-07

---

# PopID: MD_CB_CP_Low_W
---

**COMPARE SOURCES**

> No sources to compare, Steph Tobash Horn Poing data 1997-2020 HPLOH Sal and Temp.xlsl is the only datasource listed for both temperature and salinity.

Erin's note says: "April to December" but there's some data for January-March, too (see plot below showing datapoints per month in each year) (data range: 1997-2020). Winters are clearly under-represented which may bias temperature means.

**BEST DATASETS** - these are daily readings (or less frenquent) at random times (I wouldn't say they are daily means).

## PopID: MD_CB_CP_Low_W Temperature AND salinity - filtration steps to clean dataset

> There was no data quality control in this file, and units are assumed (C and ppt/psu). I deleted two dates, one that was "0" for salinity and temperature and one that had duplicated values on the same day for both salinity and temperature.

Plot showing data distribution by year and month - the numbers inside the boxes are the number of datapoints per month in each year; full datasets = 31 (for months with 31d), 30 (for months with 30d), 29 or 28 (for February, leap and reg years) This is to see if there's any 'wholes' in the dataset (missing too many winters or summers, etc) that could bias the calculated means in the table above. - this is more relevant for temperature than for salinity, but I plotted for both. In this dataset, the number of datapoints per month in each year is **identical for temperature and salinity** (so both plots are the same).



> Based on the plot above, I eliminated the most incomplete years incrementaly to see how the lower frequency of "winter data" affected the means.
